Meeting Time: Friday, July 31, 1:00 PM Eastern

Zoom link: https://sfu.zoom.us/j/8747831348

Join #multi-tenancy on https://islandora.slack.com ([Google Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSewDLgTqnOpvMAj-dcZOKh0lNTgoogcaDaAyxYevanM1Yt9fA/viewform) if you need an invite)

# Agenda

1. Multi-Tenancy and ISLE: Recent developments - Danny & Eli

2. Discussion and next steps

## Meeting minutes
Multi-Tenancy and ISLE: Recent developments - Danny & Eli
We have not met in a long time because we did not have that much to talk since the initial demonstration of this done by Eli since he was on leave. Since that time, Brandon saw some things at the first Islandora Online meeting that could relate to this.
 
Danny said that his ISLE usage is linked to the single-site case, however when you configure ISLE all of the configuration is either prefixed with “default-” or you can specify the multisite - could clarify this with Nigel. Getting the multi-site itself (web apache) within ISLE is already handled but all of the various services such as solr and especially fedora would need to be replicated for each site.
 
Brandon asked how much RAM each fedora container would take -- because this has got to factor into this decision. the bare-minimum for a Fedora server container would be 1.5 gigs. Brandon is concerned about the RAM requirements needed if separate Fedora spaces would each need that RAM when there are like 26 sites * 4 GB. Danny mentioned that once we get to the point when this is deployed with Kubernetes, that system would be smart enough to know that it could shut down specific containers need or if the demand is higher, it could scale up and down as needed.
 
Bryan and Nat asked what would each additional fedora add as a performance hit and if there is any other additional overhead? Danny - it is a trade-off and individual fedoras would be the easiest from the software development side of things, but it would incur additional resources due to the multiple tomcat and dedicated CPU, but if we go with one big fedora that is scalable, it would require some development of special configurations -- but we have no idea how well a high-availability of Fedora 5 and 6 (related especially to the difficult things that mode-shape does) with a possible downside that as it scales performance may go down.


Bryan asked about the Fedora 6 planning for selecting the OCFL (I assume this pertains to after it has been on a different storage). Danny - if you change the storage route of where it is pointing to, you are essentially deleting everything and starting over and that is baked in.


Brandon asked how Eli’s implementation of the multi-site was . Eli - you configure the flysystem settings so that one site goes to wherever you want, etc the second site could go to /site2… and then everything would live under that. However he is not sure if these separate folders truly go into the separate folders on the fedora data files. Danny clarified how each sites’ settings.php lock you out to other containers in a fedora. There remains work to be done to handle the web AC policies.
 
Brandon asked about the Solr core being able to support a multiple site core search (the ability to search “this site” as well as “all sites”). There was one issue with searching the “all sites” from a site in that drupal solr code includes a site id (Eli thinks it was the `hash` field) so that it searches only its own site. There should be a way to override the handling of the drupal solr code so that it doesn’t limit the searching to the individual site. Eli said that we are supposed to be able to do (we are doing the bottom left diagram on https://www.drupal.org/docs/8/modules/search-api-solr/search-api-solr-howtos/set-up-and-configure-a-multisite-search).
Federated solr https://www.drupal.org/docs/contributed-modules/search-api-federated-solr implements a reactJS searching and may or may not handle this.


Brandon asked if the deployment using ISLE makes sense to all of us / should that be our focus? Eventually, there will be a larger knowledge base around docker rather than the ansible stuff. The docker stuff is just across-the board faster. To follow-up on that, where are the discussion on this? Most of this docker deployment can all be done right now - yet some of the specifics are not that well documented -- potentially this would require some knowledge from Danny or Nigel.
Nat brings up the use case where a taxonomy would want to be shared across sites. In many cases, a linked-data-lookup could be used to use those vocabularies across sites. Mark Jordan wrote a module that handles autocomplete between multiple drupal sites https://github.com/mjordan/autocomplete_endpoint.
 
Discussion and next steps
* try to liaise with Nigel and add him to some of our discussions
* would sometime the week of Aug 17th or 24th be a good next meeting?? Brandon will send out a poll to pick the best time for the next meeting. 
